
Benchmrk 450.soplex, history / changes
--------------------------------------

Author: Thorsten Koch, ZIB Berlin / Germany

Project Leader: Rinhold Weicker, Fujitu Siemens


-- Still to be inserted: Initial history --


April,2004:

Asked author to provide a new input file,
with the two goals:
- Smaller memory footprint. Was 1.5 GB, should be
  reduced to <= 900 MB.
- Shorter execution time, by a factor of 2-3.


April 8, 2004: 

New input file (ref input) received from author.
First test shows that the execution times has been
reduced too much, by a factor of about 10.


April 15, 2004:

Test of memory footprint (manually executing "kmap" while
the benchmark is running) shows that the memory
footprint goal has been achieved, it's now about
500 MB.

Made tar file, sent to SPEC benchathin for inclusion
in next kit. Change only in files
  450.soplex/data/ref/input/ref.mps
and the corresponding output file
  450.soplex/data/ref/input/ref.out
Execution time for "ref" is now too short but this
can be taken care of later.


November 17, 2004

After tests and email discussion with the author,
new input ref.mps (the one that was received April 21)
and new benchmark invocation parameters
  -s0 -g0 -p2
"-p2" activates a non-default pricing model which is, however,
as representatitive for real applicatons as the default one, -p4.
Execution time now seems long enough. If necessary, it could
be made even longer with another input file ref.mps
(dated Nov. 08, 2004).
Update of benchmark documenation.

April 6, 2005

Tests in the period Dec. 2004 - March 2005 had shown
validation errors (VE) on several systems.
Investigation into these errors showed:
- The "soluation value" in the files *.out did not mismatch
  (within the CPU2006 default tolerances)
- However, the number "iterations" mismatched in several cases.
  (The program, in its form for kit 72, was an iterative solver
  that stopped the main loop's iteration once a certain
  number was below epsilon.)
  On different platforms, this number of iterations in the
  main loop was different.
- The mismatch seemed to appear in those cases (only)
  where optimizations were applied that did not follow
  language and/or IEEE 754 standardsn the FP area.

It was debated whether for benchmarking purposes, a run
with a significantly different number of iterations
- even if the "solution value" produced did not deviate -
would be acceptable. Note that with non-standard optimization
settings, we essentially do not know how accurate or reproduceable
the solution is.

In email correspondence between the author and the project leader,
it was decided that for SPEC benchmarking purposes,
we introduce an upper limit for the number of iterations.
With "ref" input, this limit (set in file Spec/object.pm as an
invocation command line parameter, to 900) will be
reached on all platforms, and there will be 900
iterations (ref input) for all platforms.
This leaves the "solution value" as the only number in the
(ref) output file that is really significant to indicate
a correct run. The relative tolerance ($reltol in Spec/object.pm)
was decreased to 0.00005, based on a recommendation
from the author.
At the same time, some other cleanup as performed on the
sources.
The resulting directory was submitted for the "kit 74" round of tests.

